Buckets overview
PDF
RSS
To upload your data (photos, videos, documents, etc.) to Amazon S3, you must first create an S3 bucket in one of the AWS Regions.

A bucket is a container for objects stored in Amazon S3. You can store any number of objects in a bucket and can have up to 100 buckets in your account. To request an increase, visit the Service Quotas console.

Every object is contained in a bucket. For example, if the object named photos/puppy.jpg is stored in the DOC-EXAMPLE-BUCKET bucket in the US West (Oregon) Region, then it is addressable by using the URL https://DOC-EXAMPLE-BUCKET.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/photos/puppy.jpg. For more information, see Accessing a Bucket.

In terms of implementation, buckets and objects are AWS resources, and Amazon S3 provides APIs for you to manage them. For example, you can create a bucket and upload objects using the Amazon S3 API. You can also use the Amazon S3 console to perform these operations. The console uses the Amazon S3 APIs to send requests to Amazon S3.

This section describes how to work with buckets. For information about working with objects, see Amazon S3 objects overview.

Amazon S3 supports global buckets, which means that each bucket name must be unique across all AWS accounts in all the AWS Regions within a partition. A partition is a grouping of Regions. AWS currently has three partitions: aws (Standard Regions), aws-cn (China Regions), and aws-us-gov (AWS GovCloud (US)).

After a bucket is created, the name of that bucket cannot be used by another AWS account in the same partition until the bucket is deleted. You should not depend on specific bucket naming conventions for availability or security verification purposes. For bucket naming guidelines, see Bucket naming rules.

Amazon S3 creates buckets in a Region that you specify. To reduce latency, minimize costs, or address regulatory requirements, choose any AWS Region that is geographically close to you. For example, if you reside in Europe, you might find it advantageous to create buckets in the Europe (Ireland) or Europe (Frankfurt) Regions. For a list of Amazon S3 Regions, see Regions and Endpoints in the AWS General Reference.







S3 Bucket can be public

1.Choose bucket
	
2. goto permissions  ---> policy generator

3. select policy type : S3 bucket policy
    Principal :  *    (All can access means public)

4. Actions:  choose any action as per requirement
		Select : GetObject

5. Copy ARN for bucket from previous under bucket policy page and paste in
	ARN field :  "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::hexaware-bucket/*"

Note: While copying ARN resource add /* at the end





